I like to think of life science as one
big pyramid let's call the pyramid
biological organization let's work our
way from very small and specific
concepts to very large and complex
topics so let's start at the tip of the
pyramid with something so small it can't
be seen by the human eye a single cell a
cell by itself is the most basic
component of life a single cell which is
capable of living on its own is called a
unicellular organism organisms like
bacteria or protists these organisms are
everywhere you look you just can't see
them but when cells join together with
more than one cell like itself to
perform a similar function it's no
longer a unicellular organism it's then
called a tissue no not that kind of
tissue there are four types of tissues
found in the human body connective
muscle nervous in epithelial bone tissue
is a type of connective tissue and it's
not flimsy like a Kleenex at all blood
is also an example of the same cells
working together to perform the same job
but it's a liquid again not like a
Kleenex at all no matter what the
consistency is a tissue is a group of
the same cells working together to
perform a similar function anytime there
are different tissues working together
we then call it an organ that's the next
level of the pyramid animals aren't the
only ones with organs plants have organs
too when we find multiple different
organs working together to perform the
same job we then call it an organ system
take the digestive system for example
it's made up of a mouth esophagus
stomach pancreas liver gall bladder
small intestine and large intestine also
known as your colon although each
individual organ in this organ system
does a very different job together these
organs work to achieve the one goal of
taking all the nutrients out of the food
we eat and getting rid of what we don't
need an organ system by definition can
only do one job like get the nutrients
from
food send and receive electrical signals
or exchange oxygen for carbon dioxide
regardless of their individual function
all organ systems rely on one another to
do the vital jobs which they can't do
themselves
if one organ system doesn't work the
others will shut down to an organism is
a complicated living thing which
requires the proper functioning of
multiple organ systems to maintain
stability this stability is called
homeostasis when all organ systems are
working together and maintaining
homeostasis then it results in a happy
living organism organisms are incredibly
diverse and can be as simple as a
bacteria or as complex as you when a
group of the same organisms also known
as a species live together in the same
environment we then call it a population
often there are several populations all
living in one environment that is what
we call a community each time you look
out the window you're seeing a community
when we look at multiple communities
along with how all of the organisms
interact with the physical environment
then we refer to it as an ecosystem when
you look at all the ecosystems of Earth
together you're looking at the earth the
earth is a big round circle of life
that's why we call it a biosphere bio
meaning life and fear meaning circle in
there you go when you break it down to
each level a very complex concept and
phrase becomes easy to understand all
life starts with a single cell when
cells join together they're called the
tissue a group of different tissues are
called an organ and a group of different
organs are an organ system a group of
organ systems working together make up
an organism and a group of the same
organisms are a population combining
several different populations together
give us a community and several
different communities in a large area is
an ecosystem in every ecosystem together
makes up our biosphere and that my
friends is biological organization the
pyramid of
life